The educational system is an important element in each country. so we started a study to fined out the ways to make an equal chance for students to experience the smart schooling. but the problem was that using the windows OS was a very expensive way. however in Iran some software developers has made some windows based tools.
Another thing that mattered was the schools staff unfamiliarity with the English language, or the wick computer systems which could not support windows as well.
So in this condition we started a project to create our own OS which can have the features that we needed in our schools such as Persian language or having a supporting team in Iran. even working in an Iranian Cultural framework.This project focuses on localization.
So we discussed the main problems of our smart educational system with some experts ,such as what an OS should have to make the performance and working better and easier for teenagers , or what software are needed in our smart schools.
After that we studied the similar projects in the other countries and we decided to core the OS on the SUSE Base system.using the SUSE studio onsite version to create the demo version of Ghalam_Maktabkhaneh OS.
In this version , we coded a system which can recognize the student and monitor his/her activity by his/her national ID.We added all the software which our students needed and the SUSE edu.13.2 core.Using the Google Drive system. Making the OS ready to be connected to a windows server .Also It has the ability of working with blind students and emulating windows software, are some other features and innovations to make study and smart schooling easier for all student groups.
Designing some online tools for managing the OS for the student and managing the class for the teacher, based on the moodle software and Starting to code a new system that uses an algorithm(genetic) which can recognize the students interests by her/his scores in his/her account and then suggesting her/his the best subject that fits to her/him.each time that you start the OS , the browser will automatically start and navigate you through the online managing system.
After all having this software technical approve and certificate from the I.R.IRAN high council of informatics and being the first Linux project for schools which has been patented in the I.R.IRAN ministry of Islamic culture are some of the project honors.
First starting the installation process , by entering national code and then choosing the language(English) and keyboard layout then running the OS , Going to the setting and choosing region and language then searching Persian and changing the interface language. after that starting the yast installation process for installing all the packages and software. and the repositories for science and education . Ghalam has a personalize package for kde that would be automatically installed on it and changes the lang. If it did not start automatically please select the package to be installed on the OS.this may happen because of the vary versions.after
that all the systems would be ready.
